---
layout: post
title: Cara
date: 2024-06-17
author: Katherine
---
### Cara

So, Cara is yet another social media app, created to be an alternative to other social media apps, as every social media app starts. I've not really resonated with Instagram, due to the AI images that are literally everywhere, with no way to escape. Hence, I’ve created a Cara account for my little art projects, and it can be found here: https://cara.app/kather


Now, anyone who might be reading this might be wondering, "but Katherine, you like technology! you started playing with generative visual AI as soon as you saw it! you've used AI images for mockups!"


Well, yes. AI is a tool. And because it's a tool that's cheaper and easier to make, who exactly benefits from using AI images versus making their own art or commissioning an artist?


I’ll give you one clue! People who need something fast, easy, and untraceable most of the time. I’ll give you the answer now! Scammers! And companies! And conspiracy theorists!


Anyone who’s spent time on Facebook in the past three months, probably about 0.0002% of people, can see this easily. AI image pages are everywhere, and usually tied to products as cheap as a company that would use an AI image. And that’s not to mention the political implications of people using AI images to show their opponent kicking a puppy or something. 


What was I talking about? Cara! Anyway, I got tired of Instagram, because I used Instagram for two things. To look at art, and to very infrequently post my art. For the first thing, I found that I was swarmed with AI images, and it got old.


Now, what’s wrong with AI images? At least for me, specifically, as a subpar art connoisseur. Personally, I like art as a way of communicating with other humans. I like seeing imperfect, sketched out portraits and stained pages, incomplete art with an apologetic caption, and paintings of beloved childhood pets. It’s not just that AI makes seven-fingered glammed-up Instagramable ready portraits, served on a silver platter for the algorithm to gobble up, or that it’s used by cheap companies trying to make a quick buck, it’s the meaning behind art. 


Ironically, AI art made me start to understand modern art. ‘It’s just a banana taped to a wall’-it’s also a story. AI art is cheap and was created without thought, without work. It’s like a hotel painting, made only to create the illusion of art. If someone had an idea, and could only be bothered to slump over to their computer, type a few words, and press enter, it goes to show that the original idea wasn’t worth the effort of a more authentic painting. Again, I think AI art works great for cheap mockups or school projects, functioning in the same capacity as clipart or stock images.


Now for the second functionality of Instagram: to post art. I don’t want my art to be fed to an AI dataset. 


With all that said, I’ll be posting art on Cara, until it begins making the more profitable decision. 